---
id: unix
title: Unix Instructions
sidebar_label: Unix Instructions
---

### Prerequisites

- [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) v10.x and npm v6.x
- Installed git and added to PATH environment variable

#### Dependencies

##### Linux

```
sudo apt install -y libudev-dev libtool libusb-1.0-0-dev build-essential
```

### Setup

Each package contains (or will contain) a readme with further information pertaining to setup. A shortcut guide is as follows:

In the root of the project, install node dependencies:

```
npm install
npm run bootstrap
npm run build
```

Next, a local environment must be created. An environment contains references to all the vaults created and stores the downloaded application contents. To create a new environment, run the following command:

```
packages/cli/bin/run env:create
```

This first environment should be created with the `development` type and set as default environment.
The newly created environment then needs to be configured using the CLI:

```
packages/cli/bin/run daemon:setup --bin-path=./packages/daemon/bin/run
```

## Development

### Building the code

Whenever code changes in any other package than the launcher, you should build everything (via `lerna`) with:

```
npm run build
```

Now, in one terminal tab, run the daemon:

```
./packages/cli/bin/run daemon:start
```

Then, in another tab, run the launcher:

```
cd packages/launcher && npm run dev
```

#### Installing new dependencies

To install new dependencies, first run `npm install <dependency>` in the relevant package, then run `npm run bootstrap` in the root folder to re-create the symlinks.

**Do not** delete or edit the `package-lock.json` files in individual packages. When not present, this file should be generated by running `npm run bootstrap`, **not** by running `npm install` in the package itself.

## Troubleshooting

There are several places to look when errors arise initially or during development. Here is an overview:

- if the Launcher won't start, look to the terminal logs where you ran `npm run dev`. Some javascript errors could prevent Electron from showing a window.
- you can send all logs (including in-app `console.log` calls) to the terminal by starting electron with the `ELECTRON_ENABLE_LOGGING` environment variable, e.g. `ELECTRON_ENABLE_LOGGING=1 npm run dev`
- if there are problems inside the launcher or apps, you can use the regular Chrome debugger (cmd-option-I) to view logs and diagnose issues.
- the daemon also shows errors in the terminal, and you can enable more verbose logging by setting the `DEBUG="*"` environment variable, e.g. `DEBUG="*" ./packages/cli/bin/run daemon:start`

